Well come back.
So in this last video I want to talk about a song based on if you're not familiar with it this is not
going to be a comprehensive introduction.
The HTP section of this course goes into more detail but it stands for javascript object notation.
It's just another data format like sci fi.
The whole idea is that it's a way of representing data.
And initially it was created to represent javascript objects with use with javascript a way of sending.
Just like with pickle where we're taking Python objects and sending them in our case to a file and then
back.
Jason was created to help us send javascript code from one computer to another over the Web send messages
send data back and forth.
It's now grown very very popular it's not only use with javascript even though it's still called javascript
object notation.
It's so popular in fact Python actually has a module called Jason that we can import and it provides
functions to encode and decode Python to Jaison to go both directions on the dock so you can read about
it the two functions I'll point out are Jason dumps.
So for example if we call this right here set it to a variable.
I'll just call it J equals Jason dumps and then I print J.
But this will do is take Python and then turn it into J some formatting which just means I believe double
quotes things like none will be changed to no I think tuples don't exist in Jason's.
Let me just see what it does.
Let's just look at the results.
And there we go.
So double strings everywhere.
No tuples anymore and none has been replaced by no.
Otherwise it's pretty much the same.
It's just converting this python data into Jaison.
So then we could save this to a file or we could create an API with it that other I don't know a javascript
Front-End could consume or a job back end or a node back and it doesn't matter.
Like I said it's not javascript specific but there are rules we have to abide by and I'm not going to
go into them because Jaison got dumps so take care of it.
But this allows us to do is to take a Python object and turn it into Jaison and then we could save it
to a file by just doing you know a file about write using Jason dumps.
And that works if we're working with built in types like we have here tuples and lists and dictionaries.
But if we're trying to do an arbitrary custom class like we did with the pickle example for a simple
class like this cat here.
If I wanted to turn this into Jason there's no easy way.
It doesn't really know what to do.
What we could call is an instance of cat like this.
Let's go with C equals cat name is Charles.
And breed is Tabby like that and I can call.
Let me copy this line and comment one out Jason that dumps C dot double underscore dict.
And if we look at that we get a dictionary representation and then it's turned into J so on which looks
basically I think it looks exactly the same.
We have double quotes and there may have been single quotes.
Nope it was all double codes.
So this is one approach and again the whole thing that I'm trying to solve or explain here is if you
want.
You like the idea of pickling data and you like getting it into a file and then magically getting it
back out without having to do any work other than calling a line of code but you don't want that data
to be stored in such a obfuscated ugly way.
You want to be able to look at it or use it later somewhere else.
Well you could use Jasen but unfortunately this isn't really going to cut it for us.
Instead I'll show you something called Jason pickle and this is a module or a library that someone wrote
on a built in module a developer wrote this and the idea is that it's basically like pickle except it
works a chainsaw.
So it's serialized is Andy serialise is a complex Python objects to and from a song all we have to do
is what we have to install first with Pip and there's instructions down here.
So let's just run Python 3 dash pick install Jason Pickel.
There we go.
Now let's make a new file called Jason pickle why we import Jason pickle.
And what did the duck say.
All we have to do.
We make an object and then we call J some pickled code and Jason pickle dot de-code.
Cool.
So let's just copy cat class again like this and let's encode.
See this cat right here.
And if I just print frozen Let's see what we get.
So Python 3.
Jason Paykel Here we go.
So it's a little more complicated.
You can see there's no name and breed.
But then it also has this type where it's saying it's a PI object and the name of it is maned cat and
that's useful because now if I stored that in a file so we could do that really quickly I'll just fast
forward through it.
OK.
And back.
All I did was open a file in write mode.
I ran the same line of code.
I'm calling it frozen and I'm just writing that into the file.
So if we run it now we should have a new file created cat that Jason.
If you look at that it should be exactly the same as what we saw printed out.
But now here's the cool thing is that I can go back in here and go the opposite direction.
So if I comment out and I'll just duplicate this down here what we're going to open it in read mode
now and instead of frozen we'll call it unfrozen Jason pickle.
De-code And what are we going to decode.
Well we need to read the file first.
So we'll just call it content.
Eclipse files that read like that unfrozen is Jason Feargal that de-code content and then let's just
print on frozen unfroze and to spell that word and let's see if it works cool.
You can see what we got back was a cat.
It reconstructed our cat from the dead.
Basically took this Jaison and turned it into an actual cat object.
So we can do things like oh we don't have any method that doesn't help us if we did have methods we'd
be able to call them.
And it's just name and breed for this example.
But it works the exact same way as pickling something but the difference aside from having to download
an actual library and not using a built in one like pickle.
The main difference is that look at our data stored takes up more space.
That's definitely true but we can look at this and we could send this to another language and parse
this and use it if we needed to.
So two different approaches.
Again what I showed you first was just plain Jason and it's kind of limited in what you can do as far
as storing custom classes and objects but this Jason pickle that somebody.
Guy girl.
A team who knows someone wrote and published is really pretty nifty.
It allows us to pickle like we're using just the regular pickle except using song with a single line
while two lines.
Pretty bad ass awesome.
We are done with this file.
O.S. oof.
We saw a lot a lot of different ways of working with files jampacked.
Maybe not the most engaging thing ever but we started with just reading and writing very important this
sort of thing.
File that read filed out right.
But then we also saw C S V and we saw Jaison and pickling.
I need a break I need a long break.